docs: Validate the LogPipeline OTel Setup and test the performance of the log agent (#1705)
kyma-project/telemetry-manager: docs/contributor/benchmarks/otlp-logs-validation.md

> # OTel LogPipeline set-up validation

Author: It is descriptive somehow. Documenting the results that validate the setup.

This file documents the process of validating the whole LogPipeline with OTLP output flow. It starts by defining the setup, that consists of the manually deployed log agent, the already-implemented log gateway, and log generators using flog.

The scope is to performance test the agent, observing the resulting values, in terms of throughput, resource consumption, reaction to backpressure, etc. And compare it to the previous FluentBit-based setup.

> 

Author: Could be an idea, but might be overkill for just a performance tests log document like this.

> 

Reviewer: Considering the reader has to scroll for about 12 (!) screen pages until they find the conclusion, I really don't think it's overkill to let them jump to the conclusions right away. 
Don't make them read two paragraphs when a ToC serves the same purpose and improves the navigation through the doc.

> ## 1. Set-up configuration steps

Author: Neither one is better. This document is just meant to, well, document the process of validating the configuration. It describes both methods in which the configuration was set-up.

### With Helm

``` bash
k apply -f telemetry-manager/config/samples/operator_v1alpha1_telemetry.yaml

// Execute knowledge-hub/scripts/create_cls_log_pipeline.sh with the corresponding environment variables 

helm repo add open-telemetry https://open-telemetry.github.io/opentelemetry-helm-charts

helm install -n kyma-system logging open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector -f telemetry-manager/docs/contributor/pocs/assets/otel-log-agent-values.yaml
```

### Manual

``` bash
k apply -f telemetry-manager/config/samples/operator_v1alpha1_telemetry.yaml

// Execute knowledge-hub/scripts/create_cls_log_pipeline.sh with the corresponding environment variables 

k apply -f ./otlp-logs-validation.yaml
```

## 2. Resulting Resources

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After deploying the [OTLP Logs Validation YAML](./otlp-logs-validation.yaml) file, the following resources are generated:
```

Author: They're not all resources that get generated, they are the ones that matter. I've changed the headline of the section.

> ### Agent ConfigMap (OTel Config)

Reviewer: This doesn't need to be a subheadline. Much simpler to put the two resources into an unordered list.

```suggestion
- Log Agent ConfigMap (OTel Config)
- Log Agent DaemonSet

```

> See [OTLP Logs Validation YAML](./otlp-logs-validation.yaml)

Reviewer: Is the link in line 39 and 48 identical by purpose? Why?
Do we need them in both places? Why not put them right at the beginning (e.g., line 36)?

> #### Things to take into consideration (at implementation)

Author: For both

> #### Things to take into consideration (at implementation)

Reviewer: Great! But the phrasing is still very vague. "What could I eat for lunch?" is also something that people might take into consideration during implementation.

What exactly is the purpose/scope of this section? Who is the person taking this into consideration? The one who tests the various setups for validation? Or the one who makes conclusions or takes decisions after the tests?

Furthermore, does this have to be a headline?
If yes, it should be h3 (because it's below a h2 headline). 
If no, format it as normal sentence.

> #### Things to take into consideration (at implementation)

Author: Yes, you are right. This section is mostly meant for the developer that will be implementing this setup in an automated manner.

- Dynamically inclusion/exclusion of namespaces, based on LogPipeline spec attributes
- Exclude FluentBit container in OTel configuration and OTel container in FluentBit configuration
- `receivers/filelog/operators`: The copy body to `attributes.original` must be avoided if `dropLogRawBody` flag is enabled

### Agent DaemonSet

See [OTLP Logs Validation YAML](./otlp-logs-validation.yaml)

> ### How does checkpointing work

Author: No, it is related to the "generated" resources

> ### How does checkpointing work

Author: It is a configuration of the generated resources

> ### How does checkpointing work

Author: And the resources are not just generated, they are what we need to validate and adjust accordingly in this task/document.

> - By enabling the storeCheckpoint preset (Helm) the `file_storage` extension is activated in the receiver

Author: More like a log on what was done.

> - By enabling the storeCheckpoint preset (Helm) the `file_storage` extension is activated in the receiver

Reviewer: Even in a descriptive document, active voice is clearer than passive. So, who enables the preset? Or is this automatic?

If you insist on keeping passive phrasing, you still should fix the current punctuation errors.

> - By enabling the storeCheckpoint preset (Helm) the `file_storage` extension is activated in the receiver

Author: Yes, I think I'll stick with the passive voice. Since it is more of a remark on what happens when this setting gets activated, either by the reader, by a future developer, or automatically, when using a Helm preset.

> - By enabling the storeCheckpoint preset (Helm) the `file_storage` extension is activated in the receiver

Author: I will fix the punctuation errors.

- The `file_storage` has the path `/var/lib/otelcol`

> - This is later mounted as a `hostPath` volume in the DaemonSet spec

Author: made it clearer

> - Also set in the `storage` property of the filelog receiver

Author: Just to create more context, I think? But they are the same.

> - Also set in the `storage` property of the filelog receiver

Reviewer: Then let's use consistent terminology everywhere.

> `storage` = The ID of a storage extension to be used to store file offsets. File offsets allow the receiver to pick up where it left off in the case of a collector restart. If no storage extension is used, the receiver will manage offsets in memory only.

> ## 3. Benchmarking and Performance Tests Results

Reviewer: This section is extremely long. 
How about we split it:
- Benchmarking (here)
- Performance Test Results (in line 105)

```suggestion
## Benchmarking
```

> Setup Configuration:

Reviewer: These seem to be instructional steps, and probably the order matters. So they should be in an ordered list and with imperative form.

 ```suggestion
1. Apply the configuration:
```

> ``` bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``` bash
```
add 3 blank spaces to each line of the code block for proper indentation in the ordered list

k create ns prometheus
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
helm upgrade --install -n "prometheus" "prometheus" prometheus-community/kube-prometheus-stack -f hack/load-tests/values.yaml --set grafana.adminPassword=myPwd

k apply -f telemetry-manager/hack/load-tests/log-agent-test-setup.yaml
```

For executing the load tests, the generated logs have to be isolated, hence the following line should be replaced in the ConfigMap of the log agent:

> ``` yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``` yaml
```
add 3 blank spaces to each line of the code block for proper indentation in the ordered list

receivers:
  filelog:
    # ...
    include:
    - /var/log/pods/*/*/*.log # replace with "/var/log/pods/log-load-test*/*flog*/*.log"
```

> For the 🏋️‍♀️ Backpressure Scenario additionally apply:

Author: Solved

> ``` bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``` bash
```
add 3 blank spaces to each line of the code block for proper indentation in the ordered list

k apply -f telemetry-manager/hack/load-tests/log-backpressure-config.yaml
```

> PromQL Queries:

Reviewer: Is this an instruction? Should the reader do something with these queries?
Just guessing:

```suggestion
4. Use the following PromQL queries:
```

What's the purpose of running these queries? Getting the performance test results?

```suggestion
4. To get the performance test results, use the following PromQL queries:
```

> PromQL Queries:

Author: They are the queries used for measuring the results in the benchmarking section. The user will most likely do nothing and just read the document for informational purposes.

> PromQL Queries:

Reviewer: The assumed reader for steps 1, 2, and 3 does the things. Why treat step 4 differently?

``` sql
-- RECEIVED
round(sum(rate(otelcol_receiver_accepted_log_records{service="telemetry-log-agent-metrics"}[20m])))

-- EXPORTED
round(sum(rate(otelcol_exporter_sent_log_records{service="telemetry-log-agent-metrics"}[20m])))

-- QUEUE
avg(sum(otelcol_exporter_queue_size{service="telemetry-log-agent-metrics"}))

-- MEMORY
round(sum(avg_over_time(container_memory_working_set_bytes{namespace="kyma-system", container="collector"}[20m]) * on(namespace,pod) group_left(workload) avg_over_time(namespace_workload_pod:kube_pod_owner:relabel{namespace="kyma-system", workload="telemetry-log-agent"}[20m])) by (pod) / 1024 / 1024)

-- CPU
round(sum(avg_over_time(node_namespace_pod_container:container_cpu_usage_seconds_total:sum_irate{namespace="kyma-system"}[20m]) * on(namespace,pod) group_left(workload) avg_over_time(namespace_workload_pod:kube_pod_owner:relabel{namespace="kyma-system", workload="telemetry-log-agent"}[20m])) by (pod), 0.1)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Performance Tests Results
```

### ⭐️ Best Results (Scenario: Single Pipeline)
| Batching | RECEIVED  | EXPORTED  | QUEUE | MEMORY |  CPU  |
| :------: | :-------: | :-------: | :---: | :----: | :---: |
|    ❌     | max. 8.9K | max. 8.9K |   0   |  ~63   | ~0.5  |
|    ✅     |   8.6K    |   8.6k    |   0   |  ~73   | ~0.6  |

### ⭐️🏋️‍♀️ Best Results (Scenario: Single Pipeline with Backpressure)
| Batching | RECEIVED | EXPORTED | QUEUE | MEMORY |  CPU  |
| :------: | :------: | :------: | :---: | :----: | :---: |
|    ❌     |   6.8K   |   6.8K   | ~328  |  ~66   | ~0.5  |
|    ✅     |    -     |    -     |   -   |   -    |   -   |

### 📊 Benchmarking Sessions

| Icon | Meaning                                              |
| ---- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| ⏳    | Full-test, involving the whole setup, usually 20 min |
| 🪲    | Debugging session, usually shorter, not so reliable  |
| 🏋️‍♀️    | Backpressure Scenario                                |
| ⭐️    | Best results observed (in a given scenario)          |

> 

Author: Their not that relevant, but I thought it would be a nice touch, and it is easier to navigate the numbers and lists.

> 

Author: I just removed the emoji on line 83 =)))

> 

Reviewer: I agree, I like them!

  - It slows down/stops in other scenarios (see bellow) => SUCCESS

#### 🪲 19 Dec 2024, Agent exports logs to a debug endpoint (5 min)
- no networking involved
- 12/14 log generators x 10 MB
  - 19.5K => ~20K
  - MEM: 43/47
  - CPU: 0.7/0.8

#### 🪲 19 Dec 2024, Agent exports logs directly to mock backend (5 min)
- networking, but avoiding gateway
- 10 log generators x 10 MB
  - 5.3K
  - MEM: 58/59
  - CPU: 0.4/0.5
- 12 log generators x 10 MB
  - not increasing

#### 🪲 19 Dec 2024, Agent exports logs directly to mock backend with batching processor (5 min)
- networking, but with batching mechanism in-place
- 10 log generators x 10 MB, batch size: 1024
  - 8.3K
  - MEM: 68/73
  - CPU: 0.5/0.6
- 12 log generators x 10 MB, batch size: 1024
  - starts decreasing (~7.5K)
- 10 log generators x 10 MB, batch size: 2048
  - ~9K
  - MEM: 74/79
  - CPU: 0.6/0.7

#### ⏳ 19 Dec 2024, 13:46 - 14:06 (20 min)
- **Generator:** 10 replicas x 10 MB
- **Agent:** with CPU limit (1), no queue, with batch processing (1024)
- **Results:**
  - Agent RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 8.46K
  - Gateway RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 8.46K
  - Agent Memory: 69/76
  - Agent CPU: 0.5/0.7
  - Gateway QUEUE: 0 (max 191)

> #### ⏳ 19 Dec 2024, ??:?? - ??:?? (20 min)

Author: I forgot when I did it, but the query is calculating the rate for 20 min in a given (unknown) time window.

#### ⏳ 19 Dec 2024, 16:50 - 17:10 (20 min)
- **Generator:** 12 replicas x 10 MB
- **Agent:** with CPU limit (1), no queue, with batch processing (2048)
- **Mock Backend:** memory limit x2 (2048Mi)
- **Results:**
  - Agent RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 8.1K
  - Gateway RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 8.11K
  - Agent Memory: 74/81
  - Agent CPU: 0.6/0.5
  - Gateway QUEUE: 0 (max 2)

#### 🪲 20 Dec 2024, Multiple agents loading the gateway (5 min)
- **Setup:** 10 nodes, 10 agents, 1 generator / node (DaemonSet)
- **Results (WITH BATCHING):**
  - Agent RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 61.5K => 6.1K / agent instance
  - Gateway RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 61.5K/29.5K => 30K/14.7K / gateway instance
  - Agent Memory: 61-68/agent
  - Agent CPU: 0.4-0.8/agent
  - Gateway QUEUE: 510 (max 512, full)
  - ~10% exporter failed enqueue logs
  - 0% receiver refused logs
  - 0% exporter send failed logs
- **Results (WITHOUT BATCHING):**
  - Agent RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 31.4K => 3.1K / agent instance
  - Gateway RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 31.4K => 11.4K / gateway instance
  - Agent Memory: 61-68/agent
  - Agent CPU: 0.4-0.5/agent
  - Gateway QUEUE: 0 (max 6)
  - 0% exporter failed enqueue logs
  - 0% receiver refused logs
  - 0% exporter send failed logs

> ## 4. Comparison with FluentBit setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Comparison with FluentBit Setup
```

In the FluentBit setup, for the very same scenario, the [load test](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/actions/runs/12691802471) outputs the following values for the agent:
- Exported Log Records per second: 3.913
- Received Log Records per second: 3.868

> ## 5. Conclusions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Conclusions
```

- A lower performance can be expected, compared to the FluentBit counterpart setup.
- Backpressure is currently not backpropagated from the gateway to the agent, resulting in logs being queued/lost on the gateway end, since the agent has no way of knowing when to stop, thus exports data continuously. (This is a known issue, that should get solved by the OTel community in the next half year)
- Agent slows down if the load is increased (i.e. more generators / more logs / more data).
- The network communication between the agent and the gateway or/and the gateway represent a bottleneck in this setup, since when using just a debug endpoint as an exporter, higher throughput was observed.

> - CPU and Memory consumption are surprisingly low, and this was not improved by removing the limits (quite the opposite was observed, with the CPU throttling more often and the throughput decreasing).

Author: Kind of bad, it means resources are not used as much as expected/desired. i.e. not used at their full potential.

> - CPU and Memory consumption are surprisingly low, and this was not improved by removing the limits (quite the opposite was observed, with the CPU throttling more often and the throughput decreasing).

Reviewer: Thank you!

# OTel LogPipeline Setup Validation

This file documents the process of validating the whole LogPipeline with OTLP output flow. It defines the setup, that consists of the manually deployed log agent, the already-implemented log gateway, and log generators using flog.

The scope is to performance test the agent, observing the resulting values (such as throughput, resource consumption, reaction to backpressure), and to compare the agent to the previous FluentBit-based setup.

> ## Setup Configuration Steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring the Log Agent

To configure the log agent, deploy the [OTLP Logs Validation YAML](./otlp-logs-validation.yaml) either with Helm or manually:
```

Author: I changed this part, let me know if it's ok.

- To set up the log agent with Helm, run:

    ``` bash
    k apply -f telemetry-manager/config/samples/operator_v1alpha1_telemetry.yaml

    // Execute knowledge-hub/scripts/create_cls_log_pipeline.sh with the corresponding environment variables 

    helm repo add open-telemetry https://open-telemetry.github.io/opentelemetry-helm-charts

    helm install -n kyma-system logging open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector -f telemetry-manager/docs/contributor/pocs/assets/otel-log-agent-values.yaml
    ```

- To set up the log agent manually, run:

    ``` bash
    k apply -f telemetry-manager/config/samples/operator_v1alpha1_telemetry.yaml

    // Execute knowledge-hub/scripts/create_cls_log_pipeline.sh with the corresponding environment variables 

    k apply -f ./otlp-logs-validation.yaml
    ```

> ## Relevant/Configurable Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configurable Resources
```
I sure hope we don't document irrelevant stuff! ;)

Reviewer: How about

```suggestion
## Resources to Be Validated
```

or 

```suggestion
## Resources Under Investigation
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploying the [OTLP Logs Validation YAML](./otlp-logs-validation.yaml) generates the following resources:

```

- Log Agent ConfigMap (OTel Config)
- Log Agent DaemonSet

> See [OTLP Logs Validation YAML](./otlp-logs-validation.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Things to take into consideration (at implementation)
- Dynamically include/exclude of namespaces, based on LogPipeline spec attributes.
- Exclude FluentBit container in OTel configuration, and OTel container in FluentBit configuration.
- `receivers/filelog/operators`: The copy body to `attributes.original` must be avoided if `dropLogRawBody` flag is enabled.

### How does checkpointing work

> > By enabling the storeCheckpoint preset (Helm) the `file_storage` extension is activated in the receiver

Reviewer: However, adding a full stop makes sense regardless if it's a Note or a normal paragraph.

```suggestion
> By enabling the storeCheckpoint preset (Helm) the `file_storage` extension is activated in the receiver.
```

> > - The `file_storage` has the path `/var/lib/otelcol`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - The `file_storage` has the path `/var/lib/otelcol`.
```

> > - This path is later mounted as a `hostPath` volume in the DaemonSet spec

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Later, this path is mounted as a `hostPath` volume in the DaemonSet spec.
```

> > - The extension is also set in the `storage` property of the filelog receiver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - The extension is also set in the `storage` property of the receiver.
```
Either call it "filelog receiver" at every occurrence, or never. If this is the only receiver in this context, you can drop it.

Author: Fixed it. Let me know if you like the new phrasing.

> `storage` = The ID of a storage extension to be used to store file offsets. File offsets enable the receiver to pick up where it left off in the case of a collector restart. If no storage extension is used, the receiver manages offsets only in memory.

## Benchmarking Setup

1. Apply the configuration (with Prometheus):
    ``` bash
    k create ns prometheus
    helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
    helm repo update
    helm upgrade --install -n "prometheus" "prometheus" prometheus-community/kube-prometheus-stack -f hack/load-tests/values.yaml --set grafana.adminPassword=myPwd

    k apply -f telemetry-manager/hack/load-tests/log-agent-test-setup.yaml
    ```

2. To execute the load tests, the generated logs must be isolated. Replace the following line in the ConfigMap of the log agent:

    ``` yaml
    receivers:
      filelog:
        # ...
        include:
        - /var/log/pods/*/*/*.log # replace with "/var/log/pods/log-load-test*/*flog*/*.log"
    ```

3. If you want to run the backpressure scenario, additionally apply:
    ``` bash
    k apply -f telemetry-manager/hack/load-tests/log-backpressure-config.yaml
    ```

> 4. PromQL Queries used for measuring the results:

Reviewer: All the previous numbered items use an imperative phrase, so we need it here too:

```suggestion
4. To measure the performance test results, use the following PromQL queries:
```

Author: It's more like an optional step, as this whole document =))
But I rephrased it in an active manner, let me know what you think.

    ``` sql
    -- RECEIVED
    round(sum(rate(otelcol_receiver_accepted_log_records{service="telemetry-log-agent-metrics"}[20m])))

    -- EXPORTED
    round(sum(rate(otelcol_exporter_sent_log_records{service="telemetry-log-agent-metrics"}[20m])))

    -- QUEUE
    avg(sum(otelcol_exporter_queue_size{service="telemetry-log-agent-metrics"}))

    -- MEMORY
    round(sum(avg_over_time(container_memory_working_set_bytes{namespace="kyma-system", container="collector"}[20m]) * on(namespace,pod) group_left(workload) avg_over_time(namespace_workload_pod:kube_pod_owner:relabel{namespace="kyma-system", workload="telemetry-log-agent"}[20m])) by (pod) / 1024 / 1024)

    -- CPU
    round(sum(avg_over_time(node_namespace_pod_container:container_cpu_usage_seconds_total:sum_irate{namespace="kyma-system"}[20m]) * on(namespace,pod) group_left(workload) avg_over_time(namespace_workload_pod:kube_pod_owner:relabel{namespace="kyma-system", workload="telemetry-log-agent"}[20m])) by (pod), 0.1)
    ```

## Performance Tests Results

### 📊 Benchmarking Session #1

> | Icon | Meaning                                              |

Reviewer: Are these icons only relevant for `Benchmarking Session #1`?

If they're relevant for all sessions, they shouldn't be under the `Session #1` headline. Instead, you could put them right below the parent headline (line 104).

  - Agent RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 14K / instance

#### 🪲 17 Jan 2025, ~11:48
- 1 node
- No gateway involved, agent sending directly to mock backend
- With Istio
- Agent has everything removed (no processors), then we incrementally add them
- **Generator:** 30 replicas (10m CPU limit)
- 📥 Debug Exporter:
  - **Results (without batching):**
    - Agent RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 16K / instance
  - **Results (with batching):**
    - Agent RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 22.4K / instance
  - **Results (batching + filestorage):**
    - Agent RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 20K / instance
- 📥 OTEL Exporter:
  - **Results (batching + filestorage):**
    - Agent RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 15K / instance
  - **Results (batching + filestorage + sending queue):**
    - Agent RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 15K / instance

#### 🪲 17 Jan 2025, ~13:16
- No gateway involved, agent sending directly to mock backend
- With Istio
- **2 nodes:**
  - **Generator:** 60 replicas (10m CPU limit)
  - Agent RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 28.6K
  - Agent Memory: 78/71
  - Agent CPU: 1.3/1.3
- **3 nodes:**
  - **Generator:** 90 replicas (10m CPU limit)
  - Agent RECEIVED/EXPORTED: 44.6K
  - Agent Memory: ~76-90
  - Agent CPU: ~1.3

## Comparison with FluentBit Setup

> In the FluentBit setup, for the very same (initial) scenario (i.e. 10 generator replicas [old set-up] / 2 agents), the [load test](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/actions/runs/12691802471) outputs the following values for the agent:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the FluentBit setup, for the very same (initial) scenario (that is, 10 generator replicas [old set-up] or 2 agents), the [load test](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/actions/runs/12691802471) outputs the following values for the agent:
```

- Exported Log Records/second: 27.8K

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Conclusions

> - Before 15 Jan. (first session):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Before Benchmarking Session #1 (before 15 Jan)
```

  - Compared to the FluentBit counterpart setup, a lower performance can be expected.

>   - Backpressure is currently not backpropagated from the gateway to the agent, resulting in logs being queued/lost on the gateway end. That's because the agent has no way of knowing when to stop, thus exports data continuously (this is a known issue, which is expected be solved by the OTel community in the next half year).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Backpressure is currently not backpropagated from the gateway to the agent, resulting in logs being queued or lost on the gateway end. That's because the agent has no way of knowing when to stop, thus exports data continuously (this is a known issue, which is expected be solved by the OTel community in the next half year).
```

  - If the load is increased (that is, more generators, more logs, or more data), the log agent slows down.
  - The network communication between the agent and the gateway or/and the gateway represent a bottleneck in this setup. That's concluded because higher throughput was observed when using just a debug endpoint as an exporter.

>   - CPU and memory consumption are surprisingly low, and this was not improved by removing the limits (quite the opposite was observed, with the CPU throttling more often and the throughput decreasing).

Reviewer: Based on [your explanation](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/pull/1705#discussion_r1922580169), I'd suggest replacing "this" with a more specific phrase (just guessing that efficiency is what we're talking about):

```suggestion
  - CPU and memory consumption are surprisingly low, and the efficiency was not improved by removing the limits (quite the opposite was observed, with the CPU throttling more often and the throughput decreasing).
```

Author: I'm talking about "the consumption" of these resources here. So with "this" I'm trying to refer to the consumption mentioned in the first part of the sentence.

Author: Although, re-thinking about it, "efficiency" might work.

Reviewer: I'm open to any other suggestions as long as we find a noun to replace "this".

  - If the batch processor is enabled, throughput increased. But this comes at the cost of losing logs in some scenarios.
  - Further methods of improving the throughput might still be worth investigating.

> - After 15 jan. (second session):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Benchmarking Session #2 (after 15 Jan)
```

>   - Removing the gateway improves throughput

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Removing the gateway improves throughput.
```

>   - We now better understand the performance impact of each OTEL processor and of enabling/disabling compression

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - We now better understand the performance impact of each OTel processor and of enabling or disabling compression.
```

>   - Generators configuration greatly influence the setup => more generators exporting less data and taking less CPU leads to higher throughput than fewer generators taking more CPU and exporting more data

Reviewer: Just guessing here:
```suggestion
  - The generators' configuration greatly influences the setup: More generators exporting less data and taking less CPU leads to higher throughput than fewer generators taking more CPU and exporting more data.
```

Is it the configuration of the generators or the number of generators? Or both?

Author: Both, you are right. My mistake.

>   - There is a hard limit (see debug endpoint scenario) that we still not fully understand, since strictly based on the benchmarking numbers of OTEL, we should be getting higher throughput (i.e. something related to the infrastructure could be influencing this).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - There is a hard limit (see debug endpoint scenario) that we still don't fully understand, because strictly based on the benchmarking numbers of OTel, we should be getting higher throughput. It's possible that something related to the infrastructure could be influencing this.
```

>   - We have now a more performant setup configuration, being more comparable with the numbers from the FluentBit setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - We  now have a more performant setup configuration, being more comparable with the numbers from the FluentBit setup
```

# OTel LogPipeline Setup Validation

> - [Setup Configuration Steps](#configuring-the-log-agent)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuring the Log Agent](#configuring-the-log-agent)
```

## Comparison with FluentBit Setup

> In the FluentBit setup, for the very same (initial) scenario (that is, 10 generator replicas [old set-up] or 2 agents), the [load test](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/actions/runs/12691802471) outputs the following values for the agent:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the FluentBit setup, for the very same (initial) scenario (that is, 10 generator replicas [old setup] or 2 agents), the [load test](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/actions/runs/12691802471) outputs the following values for the agent:
```
I should have noticed this earlier :D
